# Python Operators
What is an operator?

An operator is used in python to execute operations on given and/or created variables and values.

We've already discussed the '+' operator that can concatenate strings, but it can also perform arithmetic and math equations when used on int values and float values.

```python
math = (9 + 10)
print(math)
```

In this lesson, we will discuss:
- Arithmetic Operators
- Assignment Operators
- Comparision Operators
- Logical Operators

## Arithmetic Operators

We've already discussed the + operator, so of course, there has to be an operator for subtracting values, like the - operator

```python
print(6 - 4) # Will print 2
print(1.2 - 0.8) # Will print 0.4
print(35 - 10.4) # Will print 24.6
```

There is also multiplication (*), division (/), modulus (%), and exponentialism (**).

Using (*) will result in the multiplication of the values used.

Using (/) will result in the division of the values used.

Using (%) will result in printing the remainder of the result of devising the dividend by the divisor (NOTE: If the divisor is 0, it will result in an error, and 0 also counts as a multiple of any number, so if the dividend is less than the divisor, it will return the dividend [assuming if both are dividend is positive])

Using (**) will make the second value act as an exponent towards the first value 

```python
print(5*2) # Will print 10
print(2.5*3) # Will print 7.5

print(100/25) # Will print 4
print(27.0/6) # Will print 4.5

print(10%3) # Will print 1
print(16%4) # Will print 0
print(2%3) # Will print 2

print(2**5) # Will print 32 (same as 2*2*2*2*2)
```

## Assignment Operators

This kind of operator is utilized to assign values to variables.

Example of (=):
```python
x = 5
```

Example of (+=):
```python
x += 5 # Same as x = x + 5
```

Example of (-=):
```python
x -= 5 # Same as x = x - 5
```

Example of (*=):
```python
x *= 5 # Same as x = x * 5
```

Example of (/=):
```python
x /= 5 # Same as x = x / 5
```

Example of (**=):
```python
x **= 5 # Same as x = x ** 5
```

## Comparison Operators

Comparison operators are used to compare 2 or more different values and/or variables:

Equal operator (==):
Used to indicate that 2 values are equal.
```python
a == b # Means a is equal to b
```

Not equal operator (!=):
Used to indicate that 2 values are not equal.
```python
a = 1
b = 2
print(a != b) # Means a is not equal to b
```

Greater than and Greater than or equal to operator (>) and (>=):
Used to indicate the the first value is greater than the other OR that the first value is greater than or equal to the other
```python
a = 2
b = 1
c = 3
d = 3
print(a > b)
print(c>= d) # Means c is greater than or equal to d
```

Lesser than and Lesser than or equal to operator (<) and (<=):
Used to indicate the the first value is lesser than the other OR that the first value is lesser than or equal to the other
```python
a < b # Means a is lesser than b
c <= d # Means c is lesser than or equal to d
```

## Logical Operators

Logical Operators are used to combine conditional statements and are mostly used for selection and iteration in python.

(or) Operator: When used, it will return True when either or both values is true, otherwise it will return False
(and) Operator: When used, it will return True when both values are true, otherwise it will return False
(not) Operator: Reverses the outcome of the operation, when used, returns False if the outcome is True, and vice-versa.

```python
x = 6
y = 4
z = 10

print(x > y or z < y) # Returns True as at least one of the outcomes is True

print(x > y and z < y) # Returns False as both are not true

print(not(x > y)) # Returns False even though x > y is true, but it returns False due to the outcome reversal
```