# Python Iteration
What is Iteration in Python?

Iteration means to create repeated execution of a command, where a code block will be repeated. This kind of code to be executed is called a loop.

There are two types of loops that we will discuss in this lesson:

- While Loops
- For Loops

Both loops rely on boolean values in order to run, and they will run whenever they are true, and will always repeat a code till they are false.

## While Loops

With the while loop, you can easily execute a set of statements as long as a condition is true.

It is made of 4 important parts:

1. Initialization - Variables that control the loop are typically initialized before the loop starts, and used as the central part of the loop, this is used as a counter, where starting point relies on thsi specific counter variable.

counter = 0 is a good example to start with.

2. Condition - The condition varies the amount of iterations will be printed out, but it can also set the loop to true or false which can either continue or terminate the loop. It uses a comparison operator to set the number of iteration to print out.

while counter < 7 is a good example of a condition set.

3. Body - The body of the while statement is what is the intended code that wants to be repetitively executed when paired with the condition.

It can be anything like printing a string or even just increasing the counter, which leads us to...

4. Update - The update is what you want to use to increase by a certain increment that fully operates in the body to ensure that the while loop will eventually terminate and be set to false when it deactivates the condition statement. It usually works with a arithmetic or assignment operatoer

counter += 1 is an example of an update or step code used to modify the initialized variable.

Example:
```python

counter = 6

while counter >= 0 
print("Fractal Tree")
counter -= 1 # By this logic given, it should print 'Fractal Tree' 7 times.
```

## For Loops

For loops are a similar to while loops, such as that you can initialize outside the statement as well.

A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence such as a list or tuple. The for loop can execute a set of statements, one for each element in a list or tuple.

```python
animals = ["dog", "cat", "horse"]
for x in animals:
    print(x)
```

### The break statement

The break statement can stop/terminate the loop entirely before it has looped throughout the list.

```python
animals = ["dog", "cat", "horse"]
for x in animals:
    print(x)
    if x == "cat":
        break # This will only print 'dog' and 'cat'
```

If the break statement is stated before the print statement, it will not include the element that is utilized in order to terminate the statement.

```python
animals = ["dog", "cat", "horse"]
for x in animals:
    if x == "cat":
        break
    print(x) # In this case this will only print 'dog'

```

### The continue statement

The continue statement can skip over a certain value entirely while doing the rest of the list in the loop.

```python
animals = ["dog", "cat", "horse"]
for x in animals:
    if x == "cat":
        continue
    print(x) # this is essentially telling the code to entirely skip 'cat' and print 'dog' and 'horse'
```
