# Variables, Syntax, and Comments
Learn how to create and modify variables in JavaScript

A variable in programming is a container that holds a specific value, that may or may not change. Variables are necessary for any program you are creating, so it is essential you understand the different types of variables and when to use them.


## Statements
a statement in programming is a programming instruction that tells the computer what to do. Declaring and initializing a variable is a type of statement.

Statements are composed of:

- values
- operators
- expressions
- keywords
- comments

Semicolons separate statements from each other.

To declare variables, JavaScript uses `var`, `const`, and `let`. An equal sign is used to assign values to your variable. 

Example:

```javascript
let foo, bar, sum; // declaring a variable -- setting up the container.
foo = 90; // place the value 90 into the container 'foo'
bar = 22; // place the value 22 into the container 'bar'
sum = foo + bar; // add the values of foo and bar together and place the value in the container 'sum'. 
console.log(sum) // prints out the value of sum to the console. much easier than typing foo + bar, right?
```
The Text highlighted in green is called a comment. This is text that the computer ignores and is written to make it easier for other people who read your code to understand. it's also useful when you want to return to a project after a long time without working on it. Comments make life easier for you and others.

To create a single-line comment, use `// text`. To create a multi-line comment, use:

```javascript
/* This is a multiline comment
how fun
*/
```

The example above from earlier also uses JavaScript Operators, like arithmetic operators:

- `+` to add
- `-` to subtract
- `*` to multiply
- `/` to divide.

here's an example of all the different arithmetic operators used together: 
```javascript

let a, b, c, d, e;
a = 4 + 2;
b = a - 3;
c = b * a;
d = c / 2;
e = a + b + c + d;
console.log(e);
```

### Const vs. let
Variables with const cannot be redeclared or ressaigned. This may be helpful when you want a constant that cannot be mutable. 

const variables are capitalized to seperate them from mutable variables. 
Example:

```javascript
// hooke's law:
const K = 50;
let d = 2;
let springForce = -(K * d);

console.log(springForce);
```
const variables CANNOT be assigned like this:

```javascript
const K;
K = 50;
console.log(K); // will print out an error.
```
it must be assigned and declared on the same line.

Use CONST when you declare a new object,  function, or array.
